docs: add guide for routing traffic to multiple workloads (ISD-5943) (#174)
canonical/ingress-configurator-operator: docs/how-to/gateway-api-route-multiple-workloads.md

Reviewer: WDYT about adding this guide to the table on the home page? It could go under "Operations" for now, and when we revisit the home page then we already have a handy reference :D

Author: I was wondering if we should have a split by relation there (or maybe in the whole docs but this is to be discussed)
Since ingress-configurator is now configurating either haproxy and gateway relations, does it make sense to have a clearer separation of the docs?
I would not expect someone to go back and forth between these different docs. I would say they would generally already have chosen their solution, and now looking at the configurator. Providing all the docs for all the routes in the same place may be a bit confusing or clutered

Reviewer: I think splitting by relation makes a lot of sense for the table, and that split will help to highlight the different use cases and how they're represented in the docs. We'll eventually want to do some organization of the pages under each Diataxis quadrant, but that's out of scope for this PR. 

For this PR, you're welcome to add this guide into a new row, or you can add the guide into the "Operations" row for now :D

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description lang=en": "Learn how to route traffic for multiple workloads through a single Gateway using ingress-configurator and gateway-api-integrator."
---

(how_to_gateway_api_route_multiple_workloads)=

# How to route traffic for multiple workloads through a single Gateway

> A single `gateway-api-integrator` charm manages one Kubernetes `Gateway`resource and accepts multiple `gateway-route` relations.

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
The `gateway-api-integrator` charm manages a single Kubernetes `Gateway` resource and accepts multiple `gateway-route` relations.
```
I'm assuming this rewrite is still accurate to the charm's behavior, let me know if it's not

Each`ingress-configurator` instance handles exactly one workload,

> so to routetraffic for multiple workloads through the same `Gateway`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so to route traffic for multiple workloads through the same `Gateway`,
```

> deploy one `ingress-configurator` per workload and relate them all to the same `gateway-api-integrator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deploy one `ingress-configurator` per workload and integrate them all to the same `gateway-api-integrator` instance.
```

This guide assumes you already have `gateway-api-integrator` deployed and configured.

> If not, follow {ref}`how_to_add_gateway_api_features_to_ingress_requirer` first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not, begin by following {ref}`how_to_add_gateway_api_features_to_ingress_requirer`.
```
nit, no strong opinion

> ## Deploy an ingress-configurator for each workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy ingress-configurator for each workload
```
nit, trying to be as concise as possible in the headers

For each ingress requirer charm,

> deploy a dedicated `ingress-configurator` instance and give it a unique application name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each ingress requirer charm,
deploy a dedicated `ingress-configurator` instance and give each a unique application name:
```
nit, "it" implies a single instance to me

```sh
juju deploy ingress-configurator --channel=latest/stable --trust ingress-configurator-a

> juju deploy ingress-configurator --channel=latest/stable --trust  ingress-configurator-b

Reviewer: ```suggestion
juju deploy ingress-configurator --channel=latest/stable --trust ingress-configurator-b
```
nit

```

## Configure relations

> Relate each `ingress-configurator` to `gateway-api-integrator` and to its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrate each `ingress-configurator` to `gateway-api-integrator` and to its
```

corresponding workload:

```sh
juju integrate ingress-configurator-a:gateway-route gateway-api-integrator
juju integrate ingress-configurator-a:ingress <workload-charm-a>

juju integrate ingress-configurator-b:gateway-route gateway-api-integrator
juju integrate ingress-configurator-b:ingress <workload-charm-b>
```

Configure a distinct hostname for each instance:

```sh
juju config ingress-configurator-a hostname=<hostname-a>
juju config ingress-configurator-b hostname=<hostname-b>
```

Each `ingress-configurator` will create its own `HTTPRoute` resources

> pointing to its respective workload, all sharing the same `Gateway`.

Reviewer: Should we include instructions on how to verify the traffic is routed properly, or does that depend on the underlying workloads?

Author: It does depend on the underlying workloads and at the same time, we do have some general non specif way to test it in the how-to for a single relation.
Having it here would be a bit confusing since there are 2 relations and the instructions are not very specific.
And i would say it is redundant. I wouldn't mention it here if we mentioned it in the how-to with singular relation.

Reviewer: Thanks for your thoughts! Sounds good, no need to add anything to this guide :)
